We already have the basic structure of a function.
Now we are going to start to scale the complexity so that we can see the possibilities that this tool
offers us.
In this lecture, we are going to relate functions in other Python tools, such as loops or control
flow, so that we can incorporate a more dynamic and complex code within the functions.
This will allow us to solve different types of situations and problems.
For example, can I create a function that not only receives a number as a parameter, but a list of
numbers and passes through each of its elements?
Let's jump to the black screen to see this in action.
And what we're going to do is go scaling in complexity from simple to complex.
So let's begin with something that some way we have already seen.
We're going to create a function that is in charge of checking.
If a certain number has three digits, then this is how we're going to call our function check three
digits.
And in the parameters, we're going to pass a variable called number because we need to pass a number
when we invoke it.
And what the function does is to submit it to review process.
It is going to be a very simple process, actually.
We're going to set it inside the return because it's going to return an answer.
This answer is going to tell us if number is in a range that goes between 100.
That is the smallest possible number with three digits and 1000 since 1000 itself is not included.
It will check until 999.
If our number is in that range, then the answer will be true and the return will give us that information.
Remember that when we check within we're doing a boolean comparison.
So the answer it can only be true or false.
Then we exit the function.
Okay, we have our function.
Now we're going to create a variable that is called result in which we're going to store the invocation
of check three digits and we're going to pass some number like 658, a number that does have three digits.
So the answer should be true.
So we're going to print the result so that we can corroborate it on the screen.
Well, let's run it.
There's not going to be any surprises here.
Exactly.
True.
And if we had a two digit number, let's say 68, it would have told us that it was false because that
would be the value that return would have had when we ran this check.
So far, so good.
Let me introduce some complexity.
Now, instead of passing a number, we can pass here a variable.
For example, some.
Let's say that sum is equal to the sum of two values 526 and 311.
And now we do not have here the result of the sum, but we can still pass sum here.
So the verifies, if the result is a three digit number and yes, it is because it does not reach 1000.
So also you can pass variables.
So let me delete this and let's see one more level of complexity.
I want my function check three digits to do the same.
It actually does.
But instead of checking a single number to check all the numbers from a list and returns true if at
least one of those numbers has three digits.
Okay, how would we do that?
So pause the video and try to do it and come back so we do it together.
Okay.
So I hope you've given it a try and this is how I do it.
So we should replace this return line and I will delete it.
And I could let the same name for the parameter, but in the sake of readability, I will change it
to list.
And what we're going to say here is for each number inside list, colon, and there it is going to begin
our loop.
This loop is going to check if each one of those numbers RN is in the range that goes between 101,000.
So here we change the function dynamic to check not only a single number, but a list of numbers in
a loop colon.
And what is our code going to do when it finds that a number meets that condition with three digits?
Well, it's going to return.
True.
And in the case that this is not true, we're going to say pass.
So it continues iterating throughout the whole list.
So two issues to consider.
Return is a key word that in addition to return as a value, it is also going to end the loop.
It will kill the function and exit it.
Then, even if there are still some list elements to continue verifying inside our loop, once it finds
a number of three digits, it will finish.
It will return with true and it will exit the functions completely.
Another thing I wanted to say is that even when return is not precisely at the end of a function, it
is rather in the middle.
It still works the same as a function killer element.
No matter where the code meets the return keyword.
Once it reaches it, the function stops there.
Well outside the function we have here, a variable that invokes this function, but we need to feed
it with a list now.
And we're going to pass a short list of three numbers 55, 99 and 6000.
I'm intentionally not passing any three digit numbers, so we'll see what happens here.
So we run it and it says none.
Actually remember that none is a non object.
If we print the result type we're going to get this that it's a non type object.
So is that okay?
Why is that?
Why did this happen?
Because our loop, when we invoked this function, we passed it the list, then it checked first the
55, which it doesn't meet the condition.
So it went to the else and it passed first iteration completed.
Then it went to the second list element 99, it's not a three digit number, so it went to the else
block and it passed to same thing with 6000.
So we never went into this return.
True.
So we couldn't return even false because there is no return false.
We didn't go through any return.
Our function wasn't able to return anything.
But since functions have to return something, what it returned is an empty object.
A non object.
Is that okay?
Let's continue testing this function with other numbers.
Let's suppose that I have at the beginning a three digit number, 555.
If I run it now, I get that it is a bool.
We're going to change here to see the value of result and not its type anymore.
And when we run it, it says true because it reached 555 in the first round, it returned true and it
cut off the function.
It didn't continue cycling.
It didn't even check if the others have three digits.
This was enough for it to give us an answer.
So let's change this to 55 again and make the last number a three digit number.
The answer is the same.
True, because it went through the first one, the second one, and none of them could find a return.
True.
But then when it reached the last one, the program executed this block and returned true.
Then this function only returns two possible values.
True or none.
It will never return false.
How can we make this function to be able to return false if we want it to be informed that there is
no three digit number along the list?
Well, think about it for a second.
Pause the video and I'll come back with my answer.
So I hope you did it.
Maybe you fell into common error, but don't worry if you did.
It usually happens.
A common error for beginners.
Believe me, I was there is to think that what you have to do is go to this else and say, return false.
I understand if you tried this because it's very common sense to do so, but look what happens.
It returns false even though I have a three digit number in my list.
So why is that?
What did this loop do?
It came in with the first number, which is 55.
It checked if this number is in its range, which is is not.
So it went to the else.
The else block of the code returns false.
And since return is a function killer, there are no more iterations.
The code jumped out of the function and even though the list had three digit number on index to the
code never saw it.
And I did get a wrong answer.
So do you follow me?
So this would not be the right way to deal with this?
I insist.
If you do get confused, it's very normal.
And I did the same mistake back then.
Okay, then.
So what we should we have done here, we have to be sure that the return false line is only reached
after the loop is finished, and only in the case that any of its list elements has met the condition.
That means that the return false has to be located outside of the loop.
So we can go back and say, pass here and right, then return false at the end of the loop at the same
indentation level as this for keyword.
So I run it now and here it is.
It returns false.
So why is that?
Because it's going to get here to this line only if it never went through this one.
So then after making three passes through the else and finishing, it leaves the loop without meeting
the return true line.
It falls on this line and it returns false.
And now we're going to scale one more step in the complexity.
And I will say, okay, dear friend, now I want this function not only to tell me if there is or not
some number with three digits, but also to show me all the numbers that have fulfilled that condition.
This would be that I want this function to print a list with all the three digit numbers.
So pause the video and do your best try.
I'll be here with my answer.
Okay.
So thanks for trying.
And let me show you how I did it.
Let's say we have two numbers that fulfill the condition.
555 Index zero and 600 Index two.
There it is.
Now we need to change a few things.
First, we're going to need a place to hold all the values that meet the condition.
So inside our function, we're going to create an empty list.
Let's name it three digits list.
That's how it's going to be called.
And this is going to be initialized as an empty list, of course.
Now.
We don't want our loop to be cut off when it finds a three digit number here.
So we need to delete this return.
True.
From now on, when MN is in the desired range, we want it to add MN to our three digit list.
So we say here three digit list dot append n.
That way, every number that meets the condition is fed to the list.
Then we leave the past as it is because we still want that nothing happens when any number does not
fulfill the condition.
And what about the return down here?
We don't want it to say false anymore.
What is going to return now is the content of list three digits.
And so if we pass this list that has two, three digit numbers and what we're going to get is just that
a list with 55 and 600, we are beginning to understand the ductility, the flexibility and the breadth
and the possibilities that the functions give us.
And little by little, we're going to get more and more inside the logics of this super useful tool.
So thanks for following Phil and me for this far, and we're going to see you in the next lecture.